Wahlmodul 5: Sustainable urban development
Regelarbeitsaufwand: 6,0 ECTS
Lernergebnisse: After having completed this module, students have profoundly dealt
with debates around sustainability and resilience, urban development and planning and
should be able to participate in the discussion on sustainable urban development and
planning in theory and practice. They are informed about various thematic concepts rela-
ted and are able to carry out urban planning following different criteria of sustainability
and resilience. They have an insight into core concepts on sustainable urban development
as well as into contemporary debates around urban transformation processes.
Inhalt: The module focusses on theoretical, methodological and empirical aspects. Stu-
dents will develop and discuss ideas about sustainable and resilient development and
urban and regional planning from the theoretical perspective. They will learn to process
and critically investigate scientific literature in English. Students will also get an insight
into a variety of strategic approaches that address urban sustainability challenges and
aspects of urban resilience at the local level. They will approach urban phenomena from
an inter-disciplinary and multi-dimensional perspective.
Erwartete V orkenntnisse: Basic knowledge on theories of urban development and
strategic planning are expected. Participation requires very good English language skills.
V erpflichtende V oraussetzungen: The positive completion of Pflichtmodul 1
(“Studieneingangs- und Orientierungsphase”) is a mandatory requirement for partici-
pation.
Angewendete Lehr- und Lernformen und geeignete Leistungsbeurteilung: The
seminar focuses on a theoretical discussion based on scientific literature reading and
analysis. Students read scientific papers, elaborate answers to given questions and discuss
them in class. In a practical lecture different strategy approaches at the local level are
presented and reflected from a methodological, empirical and practical perspective. The
students work in groups to analyze a chosen topic from theoretical, methodological and
empirical perspectives. The final result is an essay about their chosen topic, which is
also presented and discussed in a workshop setting.
The performance of the students is assessed by their participation, individual and
group assignments, essays and written exams.
Lehrveranstaltungen des Moduls:
3,0/2,0 SE Sustainable urban development
3,0/2,0 VU Sustainable urban development
Wahlmodul 6: T ourismusentwicklung
Regelarbeitsaufwand: 6,0 ECTS
Lernergebnisse: Nach positiver Absolvierung des Moduls können die Studierenden die
raumplanerische Dimension der Tourismusentwicklung auf unterschiedlichen räumlichen
45
